---
title: "Cell-specific Dynamic Clamp analysis of the role of funny If current in cardiac pacemaking"
layout: post
category: papers

date: 2016-01-01

reference: Ravagli, E. et al. Cell-specific Dynamic Clamp analysis of the role of funny I f current in cardiac pacemaking. Progress in Biophysics and Molecular Biology 120, 50–66 (2016).

authors:
 - name: Favagli, E.
 - name: Bucchi, A.
 - name: Bartolucci, C.
 - name: DiFrancesco, D.
 - name: Severi, S.

link: https://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.pbiomolbio.2015.12.004
---

We used the Dynamic Clamp technique for i) comparative validation of
conflicting computational models of the hyperpolarization-activated funny
current, I f , and ii) quantification of the role of I f in mediating autonomic
modulation of heart rate. Experimental protocols based on the injection of a
real-time recalculated synthetic I f current in sinoatrial rabbit cells were
developed.

Preliminary results of experiments mimicking the autonomic modulation of I f
demonstrated the need for a customization procedure to compensate for cellular
heterogeneity. For this reason, we used a cell- specific approach, scaling the
maximal conductance of the injected current based on the cell's sponta- neous
firing rate. The pacemaking rate, which was significantly reduced after
application of Ivabradine, was restored by the injection of synthetic current
based on the Severi-DiFrancesco formulation, while the injection of synthetic
current based on the Maltsev-Lakatta formulation did not produce any
significant variation. A positive virtual shift of the I f activation curve,
mimicking the Isoprenaline effects, led to a significant increase in pacemaking
rate (þ17.3 ± 6.7%, p < 0.01), although of lower magnitude than that induced by
real Isoprenaline (þ45.0 ± 26.1%). Similarly, a negative virtual shift of the
activation curve significantly lowered the pacemaking rate (11.8 ± 1.9%, p <
0.001), as did the application of real Acetylcholine (20.5 ± 5.1%).

The Dynamic Clamp approach, applied to the I f study in cardiomyocytes for the
first time and rate- adapted to manage intercellular variability, indicated
that: i) the quantitative description of the I f cur- rent in the
Severi-DiFrancesco model accurately reproduces the effects of the real current
on rabbit sinoatrial cell pacemaking rate and ii) a significant portion
(50e60%) of the physiological autonomic rate modulation is due to the shift of
the I f activation curve
