---
title: "Stochastic slowly adapting ionic currents may provide a decorrelation mechanism for neural oscillators by causing wander in the intrinsic period"
layout: post
category: papers

date: 2016-09-01

reference: Norman, S. E., Butera, R. J. & Canavier, C. C. Stochastic slowly adapting ionic currents may provide a decorrelation mechanism for neural oscillators by causing wander in the intrinsic period. Journal of Neurophysiology 116, 1189–1198 (2016).

authors:
 - name: Norman, S. E.
 - name: Butera, R. J.
 - name: Canavier, C. C.

link: https://dx.doi.org/10.1152/jn.00193.2016
---

Stochastic slowly adapting ionic currents may provide a decorrelation mechanism
for neural oscillators by causing wander in the intrinsic period. J
Neurophysiol 116: 1189 –1198, 2016. First published June 8, 2016;
doi:10.1152/jn.00193.2016.—Oscillatory neurons integrate their syn- aptic
inputs in fundamentally different ways than normally quiescent neurons. We show
that the oscillation period of invertebrate endogenous pacemaker neurons
wanders, producing random fluctuations in the inter- spike intervals (ISI) on a
time scale of seconds to minutes, which decorrelates pairs of neurons in hybrid
circuits constructed using the dynamic clamp. The autocorrelation of the ISI
sequence remained high for many ISIs, but the autocorrelation of the ⌬ISI
series had on average a single nonzero value, which was negative at a lag of
one interval. We reproduced these results using a simple integrate and fire
(IF) model with a stochastic population of channels carrying an adaptation
current with a stochastic component that was integrated with a slow time scale,
sug- gesting that a similar population of channels underlies the observed
wander in the period. Using autoregressive integrated moving average (ARIMA)
models, we found that a single integrator and a single moving average with a
negative coefficient could simulate both the experimental data and the IF
model. Feeding white noise into an integrator with a slow time constant is
sufficient to produce the autocorrelation structure of the ISI series.
Moreover, the moving average clearly accounted for the autocorrelation
structure of the ⌬ISI series and is biophysically imple- mented in the IF model
using slow stochastic adaptation. The observed autocorrelation structure may be
a neural signature of slow stochastic adaptation, and wander generated in this
manner may be a general mechanism for limiting episodes of synchronized
activity in the nervous system.
