---
title: "Gain modulation of cholinergic neurons in the medial septum-diagonal band of Broca through hyperpolarization"
layout: post
category: papers

date: 2016-12-01

reference: "Melonakos, E. D., White, J. A. & Fernandez, F. R. Gain Modulation of Cholinergic Neurons in the Medial Septum-Diagonal Band of Broca Through Hyperpolarization: HYPERPOLARIZATION MODULATES GAIN OF CHOLINERGIC NEURONS. Hippocampus 26, 1525â€“1541 (2016)."

authors:
 - name: Melonakos, E. D.
 - name: White, J. A.
 - name: Fernandez, F. R.

link: https://dx.doi.org/10.1002/hipo.22653
---

Hippocampal network oscillations are important for learning and memory. Theta
rhythms are involved in attention, navigation, and memory encoding, whereas
sharp wave-ripple complexes are involved in memory consolidation. Cholinergic
neurons in the medial septum-diagonal band of Broca (MS-DB) influence both
types of hippocampal oscillations, promoting theta rhythms and suppressing
sharp wave- ripples. They also receive frequency-dependent hyperpolarizing
feedback from hippocamposeptal connections, potentially affecting their role as
neuromodulators in the septohippocampal circuit.  However, little is known
about how the integration properties of cholinergic MS-DB neurons change with
hyperpolarization. By potentially altering firing behavior in cholinergic
neurons, hyperpolarizing feedback from the hippocampal neurons may, in turn,
change hippocampal network activity. To study changes in membrane integration
properties in cholinergic neurons in response to hyperpolarizing inputs, we
used whole-cell patch-clamp recordings targeting genetically labeled, choline
acetyltransferase-positive neurons in mouse brain slices. Hyperpolarization of
cholinergic MS-DB neurons resulted in a long-lasting decrease in spike firing
rate and input-output gain. Additionally, voltage-clamp measures implicated a
slowly inactivating, 4-AP-insensitive, outward K + conductance.  Using a
conductance-based model of cholinergic MS-DB neurons, we show that the ability
of this conductance to modulate firing rate and gain depends on the expression
of an experimentally verified shallow intrinsic spike frequency-voltage
relationship. Together, these findings point to a means through which negative
feedback from hippocampal neurons can influence the role of cholinergic MS-DB
neurons.
