---
title: "Dynamic current clamp experiments define the functional roles of IK1 and Itof in human induced pluripotent stem cells derived cardiomyocytes"
layout: post
category: papers

date: 2017-05-08

reference: Marrus, S. B. et al. Dynamic Current Clamp Experiments Define the Functional Roles of I  K1  and I  to,f  in Human Induced Pluripotent Stem Cell Derived Cardiomyocytes. (Cell Biology, 2017). doi:10.1101/135400

authors:
 - name: Marrus, S. B.
 - name: Springer, S.
 - name: Johnson, E.
 - name: Martinez, R. J.
 - name: Dranoff, E. J.
 - name: Mellor, R
 - name: Yamada, K.

link: http://biorxiv.org/lookup/doi/10.1101/135400
---

The transient outward potassium current (I to ) plays a key, albeit
incompletely defined, role in cardiomyocyte physiology and pathophysiology. In
light of the technical challenges of studying adult human cardiomyocytes, this
study examines the use of induced pluripotent stem cell-derived cardiomyocytes
(iPSC-CMs) as a system which potentially preserves the native cellular milieu
of human cardiomyocytes. ISPC-CMs express a robust I to with slow recovery
kinetics and fail to express the rapidly recovering I to,f which is implicated
in human disease. Overexpression of the accessory subunit KChIP2 (which is not
expressed in iPSC-CMs) resulted in restoration of a rapid component of
recovery. To define the functional role of I to , dynamic current clamp was
used to introduce computationally modeled currents into iPSC-CMs while
recording action potentials. However, iPSC-CMs exhibit action potentials with
multiple immature physiological properties, including slow upstroke velocity,
heterogeneous action potential waveforms, and the absence of a phase 1 notch,
thus potentially limiting the utility of these cells as a model of adult
cardiomyocytes. Importantly, the introduction of modeled inwardly rectified
current (I K1 ) ameliorated these immature properties by restoring a
hyperpolarized resting membrane potential.  In this context of normalized
action potential morphologies, dynamic current clamp experiments introducing I
to,f demonstrated that there is significant cell-to-cell heterogeneity and that
the functional effect of I to,f is highly sensitive to the action potential
plateau voltage in each cell.
