---
title: "Differential expression and remodeling of transient outward potassium currents in human left ventricles"
layout: post
category: papers

date: 2018-01-01

reference: Johnson, E. K. et al. Differential Expression and Remodeling of Transient Outward Potassium Currents in Human Left Ventricles. Circ Arrhythm Electrophysiol 11, (2018).

authors:
 - name: Johnson, E. K.
 - name: Springer, S. J.
 - name: Wang, W.
 - name: Dranoff, E. J.
 - name: Zhang, Y.
 - name: Kanter, E. M.
 - name: Yamada, K. A.
 - name: Nerbone, J. M.

link: https://dx.doi.org/10.1161/CIRCEP.117.005914
---

BACKGROUND: Myocardial, transient, outward currents, I to , have been shown to
play pivotal roles in action potential (AP) repolarization and remodeling in
animal models. The properties and contribution of I to to left ventricular (LV)
repolarization in the human heart, however, are poorly defined.

METHODS AND RESULTS: Whole-cell, voltage-clamp recordings, acquired at
physiological (35°C to 37°C) temperatures, from myocytes isolated from the LV
of nonfailing human hearts identified 2 distinct transient currents, I to,fast
(I to,f ) and I to,slow (I to,s ), with significantly (P<0.0001) different
rates of recovery from inactivation and pharmacological sensitives: I to,f
recovers in ≈10 ms, 100× faster than I to,s , and is selectively blocked by the
Kv4 channel toxin, SNX-482. Current-clamp experiments revealed regional
differences in AP waveforms, notably a phase 1 notch in LV subepicardial
myocytes. Dynamic clamp-mediated addition/ removal of modeled human ventricular
I to,f , resulted in hyperpolarization or depolarization, respectively, of the
notch potential, whereas slowing the rate of I to,f inactivation resulted in AP
collapse. AP-clamp experiments demonstrated that changes in notch potentials
modified the time course and amplitudes of voltage-gated Ca 2+ currents, I Ca .
In failing LV subepicardial myocytes, I to,f was reduced and I to,s was
increased, notch and plateau potentials were depolarized (P<0.0001) and AP
durations were prolonged (P<0.001).

CONCLUSIONS: I to,f and I to,s are differentially expressed in nonfailing human
LV, contributing to regional heterogeneities in AP waveforms. I to,f regulates
notch and plateau potentials and modulates the time course and amplitude of I
Ca . Slowing I to,f inactivation results in dramatic AP shortening. Remodeling
of I to,f in failing human LV subepicardial myocytes attenuates transmural
differences in AP waveforms.
