---
title: "High-density EEG characterization of brain responses to auditory rhythmic stimuli during wakefulness and NREM sleep"
layout: post
category: papers

date: 2018-04-01

reference: Lustenberger, C. et al. High-density EEG characterization of brain responses to auditory rhythmic stimuli during wakefulness and NREM sleep. NeuroImage 169, 57â€“68 (2018).

authors:
 - name: Lustenberger, C. 
 - name: Patel, Y. A.
 - name: Algappan, S.
 - name: Page, J. M.
 - name: Price, B.
 - name: Boyle, M. R.
 - name: Frohlich, F.

link: https://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.neuroimage.2017.12.007
---

Auditory rhythmic sensory stimulation modulates brain oscillations by
increasing phase- locking to the temporal structure of the stimuli and by
increasing the power of specific frequency bands, resulting in Auditory Steady
State Responses (ASSR). The ASSR is altered in different diseases of the
central nervous system such as schizophrenia. However, in order to use the ASSR
as biological markers for disease states, it needs to be understood how
different vigilance states and underlying brain activity affect the ASSR. Here,
we compared the effects of auditory rhythmic stimuli on EEG brain activity
during wake and NREM sleep, investigated the influence of the presence of
dominant sleep rhythms on the ASSR, and delineated the topographical
distribution of these modulations. Participants (14 healthy males, 20-33 years)
completed on the same day a 60 min nap session and two 30 min wakefulness
sessions (before and after the nap). During these sessions, amplitude modulated
(AM) white noise auditory stimuli at different frequencies were applied.
High-density EEG was continuously recorded and time-frequency analyses were
performed to assess ASSR during wakefulness and NREM periods. Our analysis
revealed that depending on the electrode location, stimulation frequency
applied and window/frequencies analysed the ASSR was significantly modulated by
sleep pressure (before and after sleep), vigilance state (wake vs.  NREM
sleep), and the presence of slow wave activity and sleep spindles. Furthermore,
AM stimuli increased spindle activity during NREM sleep but not during
wakefulness. Thus, (1) electrode location, sleep history, vigilance state and
ongoing brain activity needs to be carefully considered when investigating ASSR
and (2) auditory rhythmic stimuli during sleep might represent a powerful tool
to boost sleep spindles.
