---
title: "Action potential contour contributes to species differences in repolarization response to b-adrenergic stimulation"
layout: post
category: papers

date: 2018-09-01

reference: Sala, L. et al. Action potential contour contributes to species differences in repolarization response to β-adrenergic stimulation. EP Europace 20, 1543–1552 (2018).

authors:
 - name: Sala, L.
 - name: Hegyi, B.
 - name: Bartolucci, C.
 - name: Altomare, C.
 - name: Rocchetti, M.
 - name: Vaczi, K.
 - name: Mostacciuolo, G.
 - name: Szentandrassy, N.
 - name: Severi, S.
 - name: Pal Nanasi, P.
 - name: Zaza, A.

link: https://dx.doi.org/10.1093/europace/eux236
---

Repolarization response to b-adrenergic (b-AR) stimulation differs between
guinea-pig and canine myocytes and, within the latter, between myocardial
layers. Correlative analysis suggests that this may be due to differences in
ac- tion potential (AP) contour. Here we tested whether AP contour may set the
response of current and of repolari- zation to b-AR stimulation (10 nM
isoproterenol, ISO).

The responses of AP and current to ISO were measured under I-clamp and
"AP-clamp" in guinea-pig (GP), dog epi- cardial (DEPI) and dog subendocardial
(DENDO) myocytes. Dynamic-clamp (DC) was used to evaluate the impact of AP
features on AP response to ISO. ISO prolonged AP duration (APD) in GP myocytes,
did not affect it in DENDO and shortened it in DEPI ones. The current induced
by ISO (I ISO ) sharply differed between GP and canine myocytes and, to a
lesser extent, between DENDO and DEPI ones. Differences in I ISO profile likely
important in setting APD response (time-to-peak, time-to-reversal), were
minimized when canine myocytes where clamped with GP AP-waveforms and vice
versa. Introduction of a "notch" in GP AP (by DC) was alone insufficient to
affect the APD response to ISO; nevertheless, when incorporated in a GP
AP-waveform, the main "canine" AP features (“notch” and low plateau potential)
caused I ISO of GP myocytes to acquire canine features.

Early repolarization contour and level of plateau potential contribute to
species-specificity of I ISO profile. Changes in AP contour, also when genera
