---
title: "A single-cell based hybrid neuronal network configured by integration of cell patterning and dynamic patch-clamp"
layout: post
category: papers

reference: Yamamoto, H., Hayakawa, T., Netoff, T. I. & Hirano-Iwata, A. A single-cell based hybrid neuronal network configured by integration of cell micropatterning and dynamic patch-clamp. Appl. Phys. Lett. 113, 133703 (2018).

authors:
 - name: Hideaki Yamamoto
 - name: Takeshi Hayakawa
 - name: Theoden I. Netoff
 - name: Ayumi Hirano-Iwata

link: https://doi.org/10.1063/1.5049487
---

We integrate cell micropatterning technology with dynamic clamp
electrophysiology to realize a hybrid neuronal network of biological and
computational neurons for investigating the effect of neuronal firing
properties on the network function. A simple convergent neuronal network unit,
consisting of three neurons connected in a two-input one-output architecture,
is considered. We first show computationally that the output of the convergent
unit changes from a logical AND gate-like state to an OR gate-like state with a
minor perturbation in synaptic weight which is physiologically plausible. Then,
using a hybrid network of a primary rat hippocampal neuron and model neurons,
we demonstrate that this functional tuning can be physically embedded. The
nonlinearity of neuronal activation underlies the ability to abruptly switch
between the two output states, which is also verified by conductance modulation
experiments. Our work demonstrates that dynamic clamp technology extends the
constructive approach using cell micropatterning for investigating the cellular
mechanisms of signal processing within well-defined neuronal networks.

We thank Professor Shutaro Katsurabayashi (Fukuoka University) and Dr. Ryosuke
Matsumura (Tohoku University) for assistance in patch-clamp experiments and
Professor Michio Niwano (Tohoku Fukushi University) for inspiring comments.
This study was supported by the JSPS KAKENHI (Nos. 15K17449 and 18H03325), the
JST CREST Program (No. JPMJCR14F3), and the Cooperative Research Project
Program of the Research Institute of Electrical Communication at Tohoku
University.

