---
title: "Correlation between cortical beta power and gait speed is suppressed in a Parkinsonian model, but restored by therapeutic deep brain stimulation"
layout: post
category: papers

date: 2019-09-01

reference: Polar, C. A., Gupta, R., Lehmkuhle, M. J. & Dorval, A. D. Correlation between cortical beta power and gait speed is suppressed in a parkinsonian model, but restored by therapeutic deep brain stimulation. Neurobiology of Disease 117, 137–148 (2018).

authors:
 - name: Polar, C. A.
 - name: Gupta, R.
 - name: Lehmkuhle, M. J.
 - name: Dorval, A. D.

link: https://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.nbd.2018.05.013
---

The motor cortex and subthalamic nucleus (STN) of patients with Parkinson’s
disease (PD) exhibit abnormally high levels of electrophysiological
oscillations in the ~12-35 Hz beta-frequency range. Recent studies have shown
that beta is partly carried forward to regulate future motor states in the
healthy condition, suggesting that steady state beta power is lower when a
sequence of movements occurs in a short period of time, such as during fast
gait.  However, whether this relationship between beta power and motor states
persists upon parkinsonian onset or in response to effective therapy is
unclear. Using a 6-hydroxy dopamine (6-OHDA) rat model of PD and a custom-
built behavioral and neurophysiological recording system, we aimed to elucidate
a better understanding of the US mechanisms underlying cortical beta power and
PD symptoms. In addition to elevated levels of beta oscillations, we show that
parkinsonian onset was accompanied by a decoupling of movement intensity —
quantified as gait speed — from cortical beta power. Although subthalamic deep
brain stimulation (DBS) reduced general levels of beta oscillations in the
cortex of all PD animals, the brain’s capacity to regulate steady state levels
of beta power as a function of movement intensity was only restored in animals
with therapeutic DBS. We propose that, in addition to lowering general levels
of cortical beta power, restoring the brain’s ability to maintain this inverse
relationship is critical for effective symptom suppression.
