---
title: "Reversible neurinhibition by focused ultrasound is mediated by a thermal mechanism"
layout: post
category: papers

publish_date: 2019-07-23

reference: Darrow, D. P., O’Brien, P., Richner, T. J., Netoff, T. I. & Ebbini, E. S. Reversible neuroinhibition by focused ultrasound is mediated by a thermal mechanism. Brain Stimulation S1935861X19302992 (2019). doi:10.1016/j.brs.2019.07.015

authors:
 - name: Darrow, D. P.
 - name: O’Brien, P.
 - name: Ebbini, E. S.
 - name: Netoff, T. I.
 - name: Richner, T. J.

link: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.brs.2019.07.015
---

Transcranial focused ultrasound (tFUS) at low intensities has been reported to
directly evoke responses and reversibly inhibit function in the central nervous
system. While some doubt has been cast on the ability of ultrasound to directly
evoke neuronal responses, spatially-restricted transcranial ultrasound has
demonstrated consistent, inhibitory effects, but the underlying mechanism of
reversible suppression in the central nervous system is not well understood.

In this study, we sought to characterize the effect of transcranial,
low-intensity, focused ultrasound on the thalamus during somatosensory evoked
potentials (SSEP) and investigate the mechanism by modulating the parameters of
ultrasound.

TFUS was applied to the ventral posterolateral nucleus of the thalamus of a
rodent while electrically stimulating the tibial nerve to induce an SSEP.
Thermal changes were also induced through an optical fiber that was
image-guided to the same target.

Focused ultrasound reversibly suppressed SSEPs in a spatially and
intensity-dependent manner while remaining independent of duty cycle, peak
pressure, or modulation frequency. Suppression was highly correlated and
temporally consistent with in vivo temperature changes while producing no
pathological changes on histology. Furthermore, stereotactically-guided
delivery of thermal energy through an optical fiber produced similar thermal
effects and suppression.  Conclusion

We confirm that tFUS predominantly causes neuroinhibition and conclude that the
most primary biophysical mechanism is the thermal effect of focused ultrasound.

